---
layout: post
title: GIS talk (ramble)
---

This is a rambling blog post regarding GIS and where I think its going.

Geographic Information Systems is no longer just desktop software manned by those that have the technical training and manipulate and analyze geospatial data within that software. It has morphed into a technical field where computer scientists
and programmers are the ones sought after due to their highly technical education background. The geography comes a second to their technical skills and many have no idea, for example, the difference between a geographic and projected coordinate
system.

In 2020, the location-based service market is a $1.3 trillion industry.*
In 2020, use of geo-location data, including GPS, generates $500 billion in consumer value.**
Geographer jobs grow 35 percent per annum, while those of cartographers and photogrammetrists grow 22 percent between 2010 and 2020.***

Location becomes an integral dimension of data, allowing information patterns and decisions to be viewed through the lens of place. Since entities on earth can be tagged by location, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) finds varied applications 
ranging from movement of weather patterns to traffic management in crowded cities to location-based services to forming the backbone for the Internet of Things. The use of GIS in the field of medicine and infrastructure planning grows as governments 
open up their GIS databases for public use.

**Geospatial technology in 2020:**

1.__Geomedicine__ aids clinical diagnosis by providing a more precise understanding of the links between patient health and contextual factors, such as where they live, work and play.

2.__Indoor GIS__ enables navigation in large covered areas such as stations and airports by relying on indoor systems such as Wi-Fi re-transmitters used to receive GPS satellite signals.

3.__Passive GIS__ syncs vast amount of spatial-related information from social networks with satellite generated location to enhance the location and user activity information.

4.__Multi-source geofencing__ provides spoof-proof user location and authentication by relying on multiple methods for verifying a user’s location and identity.

5.__‘Internet of Things’ with a geo layer__ provides a vital link between the sensors that would generate the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) assigned to a thing or an object.

6.__GIS enabled intelligent infrastructure__ helps create safer and more energy efficient infrastructure, especially in transportation and energy sector.

7.__Open government geospatial data__ including LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) and high-resolution aerial imagery is made available and consumable via APIs to power multiple applications.
